docs/AMBASSADOR.md, before:

# Ambassador

All inbound traffic to the MVP Studio cluster is handled by [Ambassador](https://www.getambassador.io/).
It operates basically as an 
[Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)
, but we use the custom resources defined by Ambassador instead of the Ingress resource.

## Routing

All routing inbound to the cluster is done by Ambassador via the 
[Mapping](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/using/intro-mappings/) 
resource, and a good example is 
[the mapping for the mvpstudio website](../running/ambassador-edge/routing/mvpstudio-org/prod.yml). 
In this case the mapping does a simple hostname match and routes all traffic for that hostname to the correct service.

## SSL

Ambassador also handles TLS offloading, so all traffic inbound to the cluster must be encrypted (all http requests 
are redirected to https), but after Ambassador it is unencrypted. To do this we use the 
[Host](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/running/host-crd/) resource, which tells ambassador to setup 
a [Lets Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) cert for that host using an 
[http-01 challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge). 
Again a good example is 
[the host resource for the mvpstudio website]((../running/ambassador-edge/routing/mvpstudio-org/prod.yml)).

Note that it takes about 60 seconds for the certificate to get issued for new `Host` records so be patient. Also,
if there are issues you can directly fetch any Ambassador custom resource definition, including the `Host` records and
these give you status info, can be deleted, etc. For example:

```
$ kubectl get -n ambassador-edge host
NAME                             HOSTNAME                                   STATE   PHASE COMPLETED      PHASE PENDING              AGE
eugene-food-scene-dns-host       eugenefoodscene.com                        Error   ACMEUserRegistered   ACMECertificateChallenge   23h
eugene-food-scene-dns-www-host   www.eugenefoodscene.com                    Error   ACMEUserRegistered   ACMECertificateChallenge   8h
eugene-food-scene-prod-host      eugenefoodscene.prod.apps.mvpstudio.org    Ready                                                   23h
eugene-food-scene-stage-host     eugenefoodscene.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org   Ready                                                   23h
little-help-book-stage-host      littlehelpbook.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org    Ready                                                   20d
openeugene-prod-host             openeugene.org                             Ready                                                   8h
openeugene-prod-mvp-host         openeugene.prod.apps.mvpstudio.org         Ready                                                   2d3h
openeugene-prod-www-host         www.openeugene.org                         Ready                                                   8h
openeugene-stage-mvp-host        openeugene.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org        Ready                                                   2d3h
prod-mvpstudio-org               mvpstudio.org                              Ready                                                   22d
prod-www-mvpstudio-org           www.mvpstudio.org                          Ready                                                   21d
```

Shows all the `Host` records that Ambassador is aware of and their status. Here we can see that the SSL certs for
`eugenefoodscene.com` and `www.eugenefoodscene.com` had errors. In this particular case that was because there were
initial DNS errors so the initial SSL cert attempt failed. To fix it you can `kubectl delete -n ambassador-edge host
eugene-food-scene-dns-host` and then re-apply the file that created the `Host` record to cause it to retry.


## Debugging

There is a console you can use with the ambassador edge cli.
Installation instructions for the cli can be found 
[here](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/using/edgectl/edge-control/#installing-edge-control).


Then run the following to navigate to the console:
```
edgectl login --namespace=ambassador-edge 172.19.250.20:30037 
```

There is also an admin page built in to ambassador you can view.

First find a running ambassador pod like:
```
$ kubectl get --namespace=ambassador-edge pods
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ambassador-8db4cb58d-gsmjj   1/1     Running   0          34d
ambassador-8db4cb58d-t9q2b   1/1     Running   0          34d
ambassador-8db4cb58d-tfqnn   1/1     Running   0          34d
```

Obviously the actual pod names will likely be different when you run this. 
Once you have the list of pods select one and set up port forwarding:

```
kubectl port-forward deployment/ambassador -n ambassador-edge 8877
```

and you can then point your browser to `http://localhost:8877/ambassador/v0/diag/` to see diagnostics.

## Redis

If you look at the deployments in the `ambassador-edge` namespace you will notice there is a redis deployment.
This is used for a handful of features and does not require any persistent storage.
Per the [docs](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/1.3/topics/using/filters/oauth2/#redis):
> The Ambassador Edge Stack relies on Redis to store short-lived authentication credentials and rate limiting 
information. If the Redis data store is lost, users will need to log back in and all existing rate-limits would be 
reset.

Commit message:

Try email fix (it worked) and update Ambassador docs with correct IP address.

docs/AMBASSADOR.md, after:

# Ambassador

All inbound traffic to the MVP Studio cluster is handled by [Ambassador](https://www.getambassador.io/).
It operates basically as an 
[Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)
, but we use the custom resources defined by Ambassador instead of the Ingress resource.

## Routing

All routing inbound to the cluster is done by Ambassador via the 
[Mapping](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/using/intro-mappings/) 
resource, and a good example is 
[the mapping for the mvpstudio website](../running/ambassador-edge/routing/mvpstudio-org/prod.yml). 
In this case the mapping does a simple hostname match and routes all traffic for that hostname to the correct service.

## SSL

Ambassador also handles TLS offloading, so all traffic inbound to the cluster must be encrypted (all http requests 
are redirected to https), but after Ambassador it is unencrypted. To do this we use the 
[Host](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/running/host-crd/) resource, which tells ambassador to setup 
a [Lets Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) cert for that host using an 
[http-01 challenge](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge). 
Again a good example is 
[the host resource for the mvpstudio website]((../running/ambassador-edge/routing/mvpstudio-org/prod.yml)).

Note that it takes about 60 seconds for the certificate to get issued for new `Host` records so be patient. Also,
if there are issues you can directly fetch any Ambassador custom resource definition, including the `Host` records and
these give you status info, can be deleted, etc. For example:

```
$ kubectl get -n ambassador-edge host
NAME                             HOSTNAME                                   STATE   PHASE COMPLETED      PHASE PENDING              AGE
eugene-food-scene-dns-host       eugenefoodscene.com                        Error   ACMEUserRegistered   ACMECertificateChallenge   23h
eugene-food-scene-dns-www-host   www.eugenefoodscene.com                    Error   ACMEUserRegistered   ACMECertificateChallenge   8h
eugene-food-scene-prod-host      eugenefoodscene.prod.apps.mvpstudio.org    Ready                                                   23h
eugene-food-scene-stage-host     eugenefoodscene.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org   Ready                                                   23h
little-help-book-stage-host      littlehelpbook.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org    Ready                                                   20d
openeugene-prod-host             openeugene.org                             Ready                                                   8h
openeugene-prod-mvp-host         openeugene.prod.apps.mvpstudio.org         Ready                                                   2d3h
openeugene-prod-www-host         www.openeugene.org                         Ready                                                   8h
openeugene-stage-mvp-host        openeugene.stage.apps.mvpstudio.org        Ready                                                   2d3h
prod-mvpstudio-org               mvpstudio.org                              Ready                                                   22d
prod-www-mvpstudio-org           www.mvpstudio.org                          Ready                                                   21d
```

Shows all the `Host` records that Ambassador is aware of and their status. Here we can see that the SSL certs for
`eugenefoodscene.com` and `www.eugenefoodscene.com` had errors. In this particular case that was because there were
initial DNS errors so the initial SSL cert attempt failed. To fix it you can `kubectl delete -n ambassador-edge host
eugene-food-scene-dns-host` and then re-apply the file that created the `Host` record to cause it to retry.


## Debugging

There is a console you can use with the ambassador edge cli.
Installation instructions for the cli can be found 
[here](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/topics/using/edgectl/edge-control/#installing-edge-control).


Then run the following to navigate to the console:
```
edgectl login --namespace=ambassador-edge 100.64.0.1:30037 
```

(or, if on the OpenVpn VPN subsitite `172.19.250.20:30037` the address you pass to edgectl.

There is also an admin page built in to ambassador you can view.

First find a running ambassador pod like:
```
$ kubectl get --namespace=ambassador-edge pods
NAME                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ambassador-8db4cb58d-gsmjj   1/1     Running   0          34d
ambassador-8db4cb58d-t9q2b   1/1     Running   0          34d
ambassador-8db4cb58d-tfqnn   1/1     Running   0          34d
```

Obviously the actual pod names will likely be different when you run this. 
Once you have the list of pods select one and set up port forwarding:

```
kubectl port-forward deployment/ambassador -n ambassador-edge 8877
```

and you can then point your browser to `http://localhost:8877/ambassador/v0/diag/` to see diagnostics.

## Redis

If you look at the deployments in the `ambassador-edge` namespace you will notice there is a redis deployment.
This is used for a handful of features and does not require any persistent storage.
Per the [docs](https://www.getambassador.io/docs/1.3/topics/using/filters/oauth2/#redis):
> The Ambassador Edge Stack relies on Redis to store short-lived authentication credentials and rate limiting 
information. If the Redis data store is lost, users will need to log back in and all existing rate-limits would be 
reset.
